Haggle
======

Architecture design and implementation by Uppsala University.

People:

Erik Nordstr√∂m <erikn@it.uu.se> (Architecture, design, coding)
Christian Rohner <chrohner@it.uu.se> (Architecture, design, coding)
Daniel Aldman <daniel@aldman.se> (Coding)

A bit of History and Background
-------------------------------

Some people may be confused by what Haggle is, what this software
package provides, and who is responsible for creating it. If you feel
that you are one of those persons, keep on reading.

Haggle is a EU-funded research project on opportunistic networking (a
concept similar to delay-tolerant networking (DTN)). The project has
many partners and this software package is the contribution of one of
those partners, namely Uppsala University.

While Haggle as a research project examines many issues related to
opportunistic networking, one main goal of the project is to create a
content-oriented network architecture for opportunistic
communication. This software package is the final implementation of
that architecture.

The first implementation of Haggle was created mainly by Intel
Research Cambridge -- a lab which was closed in 2006. That
implementation was written in Java and should be considered a testing
platform for some of the concepts and ideas that Haggle
incorporates. The Intel implementation is no longer maintained, or
used by any partner in the project.

The Java implementation had a number of issues and drawbacks, such as
being quite heavy weight and not being well adapted for mobile
platforms. Some platforms that was targeted did not have a Java
virtual machine to begin with. Further, Java did not give easy access
to many of the low level APIs that Haggle needed. A solution would
have been to write a lot of native code that interacted with Java
through JNI. But this raised the question why Haggle was not
implemented in native code altogether?

After the closure of the Intel lab, the responsibility for the Haggle
architecture and implementation fell on Uppsala University. It was
decided that instead of trying to fix and maintain the code created by
someone else, a complete redesign of the architecture was necessary
along with a switch to C++. This gave better access to lower lever
APIs and allowed a clean slate design that built on the lessons from
the first implementation. The redesign has very little in common with
the previous Intel version of Haggle.

The bottom line is that, although the name remains the same, this new
version of Haggle should be considered something entirely different
from the Intel implementation. The authors here claim no
responsibility for the Intel code.

For those interested in the Intel version of Haggle:

A technical report describing the Intel version of Haggle can be found
here:

http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/techreports/UCAM-CL-TR-680.pdf

The Java code of the Intel version of Haggle can be found on
Sourceforge.net

http://sourceforge.net/projects/haggle/

